What is Logical Reasoning?
Logical reasoning consists of aptitude questions which require a logical level of analysis to arrive at the correct solution. Most of the questions are constructed based on concepts and the rest are out of the box thinking ones.

Logical reasoning is classified into two types:

Verbal Reasoning: It is the ability to logically understand the concepts and solve problems expressed in words. Verbal reasoning tests the ability of extraction of information and implications in a sentence.
Non-verbal Reasoning: It is the ability to logically understand the concepts and solve problems expressed in numbers/letters/figures in combination with words. Non-verbal reasoning tests the ability of deduction and induction of logic of information and implications in a problem.
The logical reasoning section is one such, which is included in almost all major Government exams. A large part of reasoning syllabus can be divided into the two above-mentioned types.

Steps To Solve Logical Reasoning Based Questions
Listed below are some of the steps to solve Logical Reasoning questions and answers:

1. Read and understand the information carefully.
2. Analyze critical logical information.
3. Think of all the possible solutions.
4. Compare the answer obtained with other possibilities.
5. Come to a correct logical conclusion.
6. The topics included in the logical reasoning section comprise of the following type of questions:

a. Verbal Questions – These type of questions can be solved verbally and no pen-paper solution is required
b. Image-Based Questions – Mirror images or paper construction based images may be given in the question and candidates may be asked to find similar or dissimilar figures
c. Puzzle Questions – This includes seating arrangement or arranging people/days/months/places, etc. in different formats
d. Sequence Questions – In such questions a series or sequence of people/numbers/alphabets, etc. may be given and questions based on the same may be asked

Aspirants need to study all the below topics under the Logical Reasoning section:

Alphanumeric series
Reasoning Analogies
Artificial Language
Blood Relations
Calendars
Cause and Effect
Clocks
Coding-Decoding
Critical path
Cubes and cuboids
Data Sufficiency
Decision Making
Deductive Reasoning/Statement Analysis
Dices
Directions
Embedded Images
Figure Matrix
Input-Output
Mirror and Water Images
Odd One Out
Picture Series and Sequences
Paper Folding
Puzzles
Pattern Series and Sequences
Order & Ranking
Seating Arrangements
Shape Construction
Statement and Assumptions
Statement and Conclusions
Syllogism